styles of learning:


VARK:

visual:
a preference for seen or observed things including pictures, 
diagrams, demonstrations, displays, films, etcetera

auditory:
a preference for the transfer of information through 
listening including the spoken word, sounds and noises

read/write:
A preference for reading and writing e.g. handouts,
f lipcharts, Smartboard, books, journals, note taking, note making

kinaesthetic:
a preference for physical experience including touching, feeling, 
holding, doing, practical hands–on experiences




Honey and Mumford:

Activists - enjoy new experiences
and excitement and learn best when thrown in at the deep end

Reflectors - like to listen, review and analyse before making a decision

Theorists - prefer exploring and synthesising ideas and information

Pragmatists - learn best by putting ideas
into practice




Gardner’s Multiple Intelligences:

Linguistic
Logical - Mathematical
Musical
Bodily – Kinaesthetic
Spatial - Visual
Interpersonal
Intrapersonal



factors of learning:

Theories
Methodologies
pedagogies


Theory:

Learning theories are conceptual frameworks that describe how 
information is absorbed, processed and retained during learning.


Some examples of learning theories are:

Behaviourism
Humanistic
Cognitivism
Transformative Learning Theory
Learning Style Theory


Aspect          Learning Theorist                   View of the learning process        Focus of learning       Manifestations in adult learning

Behaviourist    Thorndike, Pavlov, Watson,          Change in behaviour                 Stimuli in external     Behavioural objectives competency 
                Guthrie, Hull, Tolman, Skinner                                          environment             based education, skill development and training

Cognitivist     Koffka, Kohler, Lewin, Piaget,      Internal mental process             Internal cognitive      Cognitive development, intelligence, learning 
                Ausubel, Bruner, Gagne              (including insight, information     structure               and memory as function of age. Learning how to learn
                                                    processing, memory and perception

Humanist        Maslow, Rogers                      A personal act to fulfil            Affective and           Andragogy self directed learning
                                                    potential                           cognitive needs

Social and      Bandura, Lave, Wenger, Solomon      Interaction / observation in        Learning is in the      Socialisation, social participation, association and conversation 
Situational                                         social contexts. Movement from      relationship between 
                                                    the periphery to the centre of a    people and environment
                                                    community of practice




Interventions that are deliberately undertaken to assist 
the process of learning at individual, team or organisational level.


Options available might include:

Traditional methods – what is a traditional method of learning?
E-learning - what methods are available via e-learning?
What are the advantages and/ or disadvantages of these methods?


Pedagogy and Andragogy

Pedagogy: The method and practice of teaching, especially as an academic subject or theoretical concept.
Andragogy: Teaching strategies developed for adult learners. Process of engaging adult learners with the structure of learning experience.



A strategy of learning is what you will undertake to achieve your learning goal – Examples of these are:
- Lecture
- Reading
- audio/visual
- demonstration, or guided observations
- question and answer sessions
- Discussions
- multimedia
- reflection
- Activities such as surveys, role playing, case studies, etc.
- On-the-Job-Training, practice by doing (some direction or coaching is required)
- simulated job settings
- self-study or learning through mistakes, but mentoring and coaching can speed up the process.



Four Stages of Competence Model:
1. Unconscious Incompetence
2. Conscious Incompetence
3. Conscious Competence
4. Unconscious Competence




TASK:

visual, kinaesthetic, Pragmatists, Theorists

Cognitivist (I think?)

Conscious Competence (I think?) (or Conscious Incompetence)